== README

This application is built upon the Ruby on Rails framework. The application consist of C.R.U.D (Create, Delete, Update, & Delete) functionalities. The Rails application was created on a Windows machine ; 10.  The tutorial consisted of creating a simple Rails application with C.R.U.D. functionalities with video playback using the Wistia API. The design was created by using materializecss (http://materializecss.com/) and google maps api. 


* Ruby version 2.1.0

* Rails 4.1.8


===Link to Code4Newbies project
This project was uploaded on to  Heroku

https://aqueous-bastion-4501.herokuapp.com/

===First time set up for Heroku for Windows machine
When delpoying your Rails app into Heroku for the first time make sure to download the Heroku tool belt for your machine, in this case Windows. 
====Steps:
Create account on Heroku or if already have an account sign in
Then open your Rails project Gemfile and remove
     # Use sqlite3 as the database for Active Record
     gem 'sqlite3'
Add it at the bottom of the Gemfile you will be adding a new group designated for production with the following
      group :development do
         gem 'sqlite3'
      end
      group :production do
         gem 'pg'
         gem 'rails_12factor'
      end
After the gems have been added we will run bundle install
     bundle install --without production
Once the bundle is installed in your git bash terminal run
     heroku login
Upload your credentials
From there you will need to initilaize a git repo within your Rails project. If you have already have a git repository in your Rails project folder all you will need to do is add the updated files and commit to the master repository. I ran into an issue when I first deployed it to Heroku. 

Next in your git bash type:
    heroku create
Once Heroku is created you will see a custom URL followed by herokuapp.com
You will need to push the git folder into heroku to finalize the deployment
    git push heroku master
The last thing you will need to do is in your git bash terminal you will need to migrate your database
    heroku run rake db:migrate
Finally to open your heroku app and view it on your web browser
    heroku open
======Side note: If you accidently delete your Rails application on heroku
If you delete it by accident and your trying to utilize git push heroku master and there is an error such as this one:
       ! No such app as heroku-app-name-here.
       fatal: Could not read from remote repository
Then follwoing will remove the first herouk master file 
     git remote rm heroku
This will let you add a new heroku master file and be able to push the application to heroku.   

=====Git basic commands
Initializes the repository
     git init
Adds the files into the initialized repository
     git add -A
finally git commit to commit the files and add it to the master repository.
     git commit -m "message goes here"
Checking the status of the repository
     git status
If you need to see the different changes that have occurred in the repository
     git diff
To see all of your commits in your git repository
     git log
Navigating through folders using git bash
     cd filename
Go back a previous location
     cd -
Moving up a file directory
     cd ..


=== Known Issues
There as been many instances where developing or learning Ruby on Rails on a Windows machine is at times, time consuming due to the nature of the trouble-shooting issues that arise. One issue that I think that is consistant is the configuration when you use RailsInstaller. 

The best way to fix this error is by the following

"Windows does not include zoneinfo files, so bundle the tzinfo-data gem" within the gemfile

To:

 gem 'tzinfo-data', platforms: [:mingw, :mswin]

From:

 gem 'tzinfo-data', platforms: [:mingw, :mswin, :x64_mingw]


The other issue is when you install RailsInstaller for the first time and create a new rails app and you cannot access the Ruby Gems due to the nature of the SSL Certificate. This configuration will need to be added manually. 

Go into your C: drive access the  ssl_cert folder within the RailsInstaller 
   RailsInstaller/Ruby2.1.0/lib/ruby/rubygems/ssl_cert

Copy the AddTrustExternalCARoot-2048.pem from this link, SSL upgrades on rubygems.org and RubyInstaller versions (https://gist.github.com/luislavena/f064211759ee0f806c88) go to the section under; Step 1: Obtain the new trust certificate and add AddTrustExternalCARoot-2048.pem to the ssl_cert folder. Once that is added you should not have any problems with the Ruby Gems. 


The tutorial on this Ruby on Rails application was created by Leo Trieu ; Code4Startup (https://code4startup.com/)





